Blog: ValidatingAdmissionPolicy GA (#45552)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2024-04-24-validating-admission-policy-ga/index.md

------
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes 1.30: Validating Admission Policy Is Generally Available"
slug: validating-admission-policy-ga
date: 2024-04-24
---

**Author:** Jiahui Feng (Google)

On behalf of the Kubernetes project, I am excited to announce that ValidatingAdmissionPolicy has reached
**general availability**
as part of Kubernetes 1.30 release. If you have not yet read about this new declarative alternative to
validating admission webhooks, it may be interesting to read our
[previous post](/blog/2022/12/20/validating-admission-policies-alpha/) about the new feature.

> If you have already heard about Validating Admission Policy and you are eager to try it out, there is no better time to do it now.

Reviewer: I'd write:
```suggestion
If you have already heard about ValidatingAdmissionPolicies and you are eager to try them out,
there is no better time to do it than now.
```

> Let's have a taste of Validating Admission Policy by replacing a simple webhook. 

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
Let's have a taste of a ValidatingAdmissionPolicy, by replacing a simple webhook.
```

## Example admission webhook
First, let's take a look at an example of a simple webhook. Here is an excerpt from a webhook that

> enforce `runAsNonRoot`, `readOnlyRootFilesystem`, `allowPrivilegeEscalation`, and `privileged` to be set to the least permissive values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
enforces `runAsNonRoot`, `readOnlyRootFilesystem`, `allowPrivilegeEscalation`, and `privileged` to be set to the least permissive values.
```

	var errs []error
	for i, c := range deploy.Spec.Template.Spec.Containers {
		if c.Name == "" {
			return fmt.Errorf("container %d has no name", i)
		}
		if c.SecurityContext == nil {
			errs = append(errs, fmt.Errorf("container %q does not have SecurityContext", c.Name))
		}
		if c.SecurityContext.RunAsNonRoot == nil || !*c.SecurityContext.RunAsNonRoot {
			errs = append(errs, fmt.Errorf("container %q must set RunAsNonRoot to true in its SecurityContext", c.Name))
		}
		if c.SecurityContext.ReadOnlyRootFilesystem == nil || !*c.SecurityContext.ReadOnlyRootFilesystem {
			errs = append(errs, fmt.Errorf("container %q must set ReadOnlyRootFilesystem to true in its SecurityContext", c.Name))
		}
		if c.SecurityContext.AllowPrivilegeEscalation != nil && *c.SecurityContext.AllowPrivilegeEscalation {
			errs = append(errs, fmt.Errorf("container %q must NOT set AllowPrivilegeEscalation to true in its SecurityContext", c.Name))
		}
		if c.SecurityContext.Privileged != nil && *c.SecurityContext.Privileged {
			errs = append(errs, fmt.Errorf("container %q must NOT set Privileged to true in its SecurityContext", c.Name))
		}
	}
	return errors.NewAggregate(errs)
}
```

> 

Reviewer: Ideally, put the code from that gist into the Kubernetes website; we'd prefer not to depend on an individual's GitHub account.

You can commit the file into the same directory as the `index.md`.

Author: The small problem is that, if I put `webhook.go` in this directory, when one runs `go mod tidy`, whatever `webhook.go` requires, including kubernetes API would be pulled in. Lacking any way to let go toolchain ignore this file, would you recommend that we make it `webhook.go.txt`? Thank you.

Reviewer: We don't often run `go mod tidy` against the blog Markdown, so it's likely to be OK to add the file into this repo.
@tengqm - do you have an opinion here?

Reviewer 3: I am okay to embed the code snippet in the blog.

Reviewer: OK, @jiahuif - would you be willing to switch away from the link to the gist?

If you need (or would prefer) to achieve something in HTML, like maybe using `<details>` - ask, we may be able to make you a new shortcode.

Author: I took the simple approach. I put the source file alongside the page. The CI did not complain so I guess it is fine. Let me know if that looks good to you. Thank you.

> Check out [What are admission webhooks?](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/#what-are-admission-webhooks) Or, see the [full code](https://gist.github.com/jiahuif/2653f2ce41fe6a2e5739ea7cd76b182b) of this webhook to follow along this walkthrough. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Check out [What are admission webhooks?](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/#what-are-admission-webhooks) Or, see the [full code](https://gist.github.com/jiahuif/2653f2ce41fe6a2e5739ea7cd76b182b) of this webhook to follow along with this walkthrough. 
```

  name: "pod-security.policy.example.com"
spec:
  failurePolicy: Fail
  matchConstraints:
    resourceRules:
    - apiGroups:   ["apps"]
      apiVersions: ["v1"]
      operations:  ["CREATE", "UPDATE"]
      resources:   ["deployments"]
  validations:
  - expression: object.spec.template.spec.containers.all(c, has(c.securityContext) && has(c.securityContext.runAsNonRoot) && c.securityContext.runAsNonRoot)
    message: 'all containers must set runAsNonRoot to true'
  - expression: object.spec.template.spec.containers.all(c, has(c.securityContext) && has(c.securityContext.readOnlyRootFilesystem) && c.securityContext.readOnlyRootFilesystem)
    message: 'all containers must set readOnlyRootFilesystem to true'
  - expression: object.spec.template.spec.containers.all(c, !has(c.securityContext) || !has(c.securityContext.allowPrivilegeEscalation) || !c.securityContext.allowPrivilegeEscalation)
    message: 'all containers must NOT set allowPrivilegeEscalation to true'
  - expression: object.spec.template.spec.containers.all(c, !has(c.securityContext) || !has(c.securityContext.Privileged) || !c.securityContext.Privileged)
    message: 'all containers must NOT set privileged to true'
```

> Create the policy with `kubectl`. Great, no complain so far. But let's get the policy object back and take a look at its status.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create the policy with `kubectl`. Great, no complaints so far. But let's get the policy object back, and take a look at its status.
```

```shell
kubectl get -oyaml validatingadmissionpolicies/pod-security.policy.example.com
```
```yaml
  status:
    typeChecking:
      expressionWarnings:
      - fieldRef: spec.validations[3].expression
        warning: |
          apps/v1, Kind=Deployment: ERROR: <input>:1:76: undefined field 'Privileged'
           | object.spec.template.spec.containers.all(c, !has(c.securityContext) || !has(c.securityContext.Privileged) || !c.securityContext.Privileged)
           | ...........................................................................^
          ERROR: <input>:1:128: undefined field 'Privileged'
           | object.spec.template.spec.containers.all(c, !has(c.securityContext) || !has(c.securityContext.Privileged) || !c.securityContext.Privileged)
           | ...............................................................................................................................^

```
The policy was checked against its matched type, which is `apps/v1.Deployment`.

> Looking at the `fieldRef`, the problem was with the 3rd expression (index starts with 0)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Looking at the `fieldRef`, the problem was with the 3rd expression (index starts with 0).
```

Warning: Validation failed for ValidatingAdmissionPolicy 'pod-security.policy.example.com' with binding 'pod-security.policy-binding.example.com': all containers must NOT set privileged to true
Error from server: error when creating "STDIN": admission webhook "webhook.example.com" denied the request: [container "nginx" must set RunAsNonRoot to true in its SecurityContext, container "nginx" must set ReadOnlyRootFilesystem to true in its SecurityContext, container "nginx" must NOT set AllowPrivilegeEscalation to true in its SecurityContext, container "nginx" must NOT set Privileged to true in its SecurityContext]
```
Looks great! The policy and the webhook give equivalent results.
After a few other cases, when we are confident with our policy, maybe it is time to do some cleanup.

- For every expression, we repeat access to `object.spec.template.spec.containers` and to each `securityContext`;
- There is a pattern of checking presence of a field and then accessing it, which looks a bit verbose.

> Fortunately, since Kubernetes 1.28, we have new solutions for both issues.

Reviewer: How about:
```suggestion
The Kubernetes 1.28 release [provided](/blog/2023/08/15/kubernetes-v1-28-release/) new solutions
for both issues.
```

Variable Composition allows us to extract repeated sub-expressions into their own variables.

> Kubernetes enables [the optional library](https://github.com/google/cel-spec/wiki/proposal-246) for CEL, which are excellent to work with fields that are, you guessed it, optional. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubernetes enables [the optional library](https://github.com/google/cel-spec/wiki/proposal-246) for CEL, which is excellent for working with fields that are, you guessed it, optional. 
```

      matchLabels:
        "kubernetes.io/metadata.name": "policy-test"
```
And finally, remove the webhook. Now the result should include only messages from 
the policy.
```shell
kubectl create -n policy-test -f- <<EOF
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  labels:
    app: nginx
  name: nginx
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: nginx
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: nginx
    spec:
      containers:
      - image: nginx
        name: nginx
        securityContext:
          privileged: true
          allowPrivilegeEscalation: true
EOF
```
```text
The deployments "nginx" is invalid: : ValidatingAdmissionPolicy 'pod-security.policy.example.com' with binding 'pod-security.policy-binding.example.com' denied request: all containers must set runAsNonRoot to true
```
Please notice that, by design, the policy will stop evaluation after the first expression that causes the request to be denied.
This is different from what happens when the expressions generate only warnings.

## Set up monitoring
Unlike a webhook, a policy is not a dedicated process that can expose its own metrics.
Instead, you can use metrics from the API server in their place.

> Here are some examples in Prometheus Query Language of common monitoring tasks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here are some examples in Prometheus Query Language for common monitoring tasks.
```
